docs/source/dev/imageseries-load-options.rst, before:

.. _keyword-options:

Keyword Options for imageseries
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Each type of imageseries has its own keyword options for loading and saving.

HDF5
++++++++++

The format name is ``hdf5``.

This is used at CHESS (Cornell High Energy Synchrotron Source). Raw data from
the Dexela detectors comes out in HDF5 format. We still will do the dark
subtraction and flipping.

**On Write.**

``path``
    (required) path to directory containing data group (data set is named
    `images`

``shuffle``
    (default=True) HDF5 write option

``gzip``
    (default=1) compression level

``chunk_rows``
    (default=all) sets HDF5 chunk size in terms of number of rows in image

**On Open.**

``path``
    (required) path to directory containing data group (data set is named
    `images`)

Frame Cache
++++++++++++++++++++
The format name is ``frame-cache``.

A better name might be sparse matrix format because the images are stored as
sparse matrices in numpy npz file. There are actually two forms of the
frame-cache. The original is a YAML-based format, which is now deprecated.
The current format is a single .npz file that includes array data and metadata.

**On Write.**

``threshold``
    (required) this is the main option; all data below the threshold is ignored;
    be careful because a too small threshold creates huge files; normally,
    however, we get a massive savings of file size since the images are
    usually over 99% sparse.

``output_yaml``
    (default=False) This is deprecated.

**On Open.**
No options are available on open.


Image Files
+++++++++++++

The format name is ``image-files``.

**On Write.**

There is actually no write function for this type of imageseries. It is
usually used to load image data to be sparsed and saved in another (usually
*frame-cache*) format.


**On Open.**

This is usually written by hand. It is a YAML-based format, so the options are
in the file, not passed as keyword arguments. The file defines a
list of image files. It could be a list of single images or a list of
multi-imagefiles.

YAML keywords are:

``image-files``
    dictionary defining the image files

    - ``directory``: the directory containing the images
    - ``files``:  the list of images; it is a space separated list of file
      names or glob patterns

``empty-frames``
    (optional) number of frames to skip at the beginning of
    each multiframe file; this is a commonly used option

``max-total-frames``
    (optional) the maximum number of frames in the imageseries; this option
     might be used for testing the data on a small number of frames

``max-file-frames``
    (optional) the maximum number of frames to read per file; this would
    be unusual

``metadata``
    (required) it usually contains array data or string, but it can be empty


Raw Image
++++++++++++++++++++
The format name is ``raw-image``.

**On Write.**

Like the *image-files* format, there is no writer for this format.

**On Open.**

There is another YAML based format.

YAML keywords are:

``filename``
  name of the data file
``scalar``
  This defines the scalar details.

  - ``type``: can be "i", "f", "d", or "b" for integer, float, double or bool
  - ``bytes``: 1, 2, 4, or 8, for integer types only
  - ``signed``: true or false
  - ``endian``: can be ``big`` or ``little``

``shape``
  2-tuple of ints

``skip``
  number of bytes to skip at the beginning of the file (in the header)

Here is an example that describes the GE format:

.. code-block:: YAML

    #
    # YAML example for raw image
    #
    # For scalar definition:
    #   "type": i -> int, f -> float, d -> double, b -> bool
    #    "bytes" and "signed" are only for int types
    #    "bytes": 1, 2, 4, or 8
    #    "signed": true | false
    #    "endian": use sys.byteorder to determine value for local system
    #
    filename: RUBY_4537.ge
    shape: 2048 2048
    skip: 8192
    scalar:
      type: i
      bytes: 2
      signed: false
      endian: little

Commit message:

developer/API docs for imageseries

docs/source/dev/imageseries-load-options.rst, after:

.. _keyword-options:

Keyword Options for imageseries
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Each type of imageseries has its own keyword options for loading and saving.

HDF5
++++++++++

The format name is ``hdf5``.

This is used at CHESS (Cornell High Energy Synchrotron Source). Raw data from
the Dexela detectors comes out in HDF5 format. We still will do the dark
subtraction and flipping.

**On Write.**

``path``
    (required) path to directory containing data group

``dataname``
    name of data set, default = "images"

``shuffle``
    (default=True) HDF5 write option

``gzip``
    (default=1) compression level

``chunk_rows``
    (default=all) sets HDF5 chunk size in terms of number of rows in image

**On Open.**

``path``
    (required) path to directory containing data group (data set is named
    `images`)

``dataname``
    name of data set, default = "images"; note that there is no actual
    write option for this.


Frame Cache
++++++++++++++++++++
The format name is ``frame-cache``.

A better name might be sparse matrix format because the images are stored as
sparse matrices in numpy npz file. There are actually two forms of the
frame-cache. The original is a YAML-based format, which is now deprecated.
The current format is a single .npz file that includes array data and metadata.

**On Write.**

``threshold``
    (required) this is the main option; all data below the threshold is ignored;
    be careful because a too small threshold creates huge files; normally,
    however, we get a massive savings of file size since the images are
    usually over 99% sparse.

``output_yaml``
    (default=False) This is deprecated.

**On Open.**
No options are available on open.


Image Files
+++++++++++++

The format name is ``image-files``.

**On Write.**

There is actually no write function for this type of imageseries. It is
usually used to load image data to be sparsed and saved in another (usually
*frame-cache*) format.


**On Open.**

This is usually written by hand. It is a YAML-based format, so the options are
in the file, not passed as keyword arguments. The file defines a
list of image files. It could be a list of single images or a list of
multi-imagefiles.

YAML keywords are:

``image-files``
    dictionary defining the image files

    - ``directory``: the directory containing the images
    - ``files``:  the list of images; it is a space separated list of file
      names or glob patterns

``empty-frames``
    (optional) number of frames to skip at the beginning of
    each multiframe file; this is a commonly used option

``max-total-frames``
    (optional) the maximum number of frames in the imageseries; this option
     might be used for testing the data on a small number of frames

``max-file-frames``
    (optional) the maximum number of frames to read per file; this would
    be unusual

``metadata``
    (required) it usually contains array data or string, but it can be empty


Raw Image
++++++++++++++++++++
The format name is ``raw-image``.

**On Write.**

Like the *image-files* format, there is no writer for this format.

**On Open.**

There is another YAML based format.

YAML keywords are:

``filename``
  name of the data file
``scalar``
  This defines the scalar details.

  - ``type``: can be "i", "f", "d", or "b" for integer, float, double or bool
  - ``bytes``: 1, 2, 4, or 8, for integer types only
  - ``signed``: true or false
  - ``endian``: can be ``big`` or ``little``

``shape``
  2-tuple of ints

``skip``
  number of bytes to skip at the beginning of the file (in the header)

Here is an example that describes the GE format:

.. code-block:: YAML

    #
    # YAML example for raw image
    #
    # For scalar definition:
    #   "type": i -> int, f -> float, d -> double, b -> bool
    #    "bytes" and "signed" are only for int types
    #    "bytes": 1, 2, 4, or 8
    #    "signed": true | false
    #    "endian": use sys.byteorder to determine value for local system
    #
    filename: RUBY_4537.ge
    shape: 2048 2048
    skip: 8192
    scalar:
      type: i
      bytes: 2
      signed: false
      endian: little


Array
++++++

This loads a 3D numpy array and treats it as an imageseries.

**On Write.**

There is no writer for this format.

**On Open.**

``data``
   The 3-dimensional numpy array data.
``metadata``
   The metadata dictionary.
